Music and Other Arts

COMMUNICATION GOALS

1 Describe how you’ve been enjoying the arts 2 Express a negative opinion politely 3 Describe a creative personality 4 Discuss the benefits of the arts A FRAME YOUR IDEAS Complete the survey. Then tell a partner about the

songs and artists you listed. Explain why each one is memorable for you.

B 1:14 VOCABULARY ELEMENTS OF MUSIC Work with a partner to

explain the meanings of the words on the right. Use the survey to support your explanation. Then listen and repeat. C PAIR WORK Tell your partner about the performers you’d like to see, or not like

to see, in the future. Explain your reasons.

MUSICAL MEMORIES

WRITE ONE OR MORE EXAMPLES OF YOUR

1 A song with a really danceable beat that made you want to get up and move to the music 2 A song with a catchy, unforgettable melody that you

loved—you couldn’t get the music out of your head 3 A song with an annoying melody that drove you

crazy every time you heard it 4 A song with really moving lyrics—you got emotional every time you heard the words 5 A song with interesting lyrics that made you really

think about the song’s meaning

6 A group or performer with an innovative sound

unlike anything you’d heard before 7 A singer that blew you away with his or her extraordinary singing voice 8 A top-notch musician you thought was one of the most talented artists ever 9 A singer, musician, or group that put on an

amazing and memorable performance
D 1:15 SPOTLIGHT Read and listen to three colleagues discussing what to do after a meeting. Notice the spotlighted language.

F THINK AND EXPLAIN Discuss these questions. 1 Who’s willing to see The Phantom of the Opera and who’s not? Explain each person’s point of view. 2 Why do you think Sandy thinks the art exhibit might be just right for Paul? SPEAKING PAIR WORK Rate the events on a scale of 1 to 5

(with 5 being most enjoyable). Then tell your partner about the kinds of events you’d like to attend. Explain your reasons in detail.

E UNDERSTAND IDIOMS AND EXPRESSIONS Find these expressions in Spotlight. Match each with its correct usage. 1 I’m in. 2 It’s nothing to write home about. 3 It isn’t my thing. 4 He’s hard to please. 5 I don’t mean to be a pain. 6 It’s right up your alley. 7 Now you’re talking.

ENGLISH FOR TODAY’S WORLD

Understand a variety of accents. Amalia = Spanish

Sandy = Chinese

Paul = American English (standard)

an art exhibit a modern dance performance a play a rock concert a classical music concert a musical a comedy show a jazz performance a balle
ten years. 2 Justin Timberlake has already given two

concerts in my town. 3 She’s looked online this morning for a good

deal on show tickets. 4 Since he got promoted to stage manager, Mark’s arrived early at the theater every day.

5 We’ve gone to a lot of concerts lately. 6 Have you ever visited the Museum of Contemporary Art? 7 How many times have you seen the musical Les Misérables? 8 Lately, audiences have asked them to play more songs from their new album. F GRAMMAR PRACTICE Complete the questions, using the present perfect continuous when possible. Otherwise, use the present perfect. 1 A: music videos on my tablet? B: Yes, I have. But I’m done. 2 A: the musical Wicked yet? B: No, he hasn’t. But he should. It’s unforgettable. 3 A: ? B: Just now? I’ve been checking to see if there are any interesting art exhibits this week. 4 A: late again? B: I’m afraid so. But she’ll be heading home in a few minutes. 5 A: to a Broadway musical? B: Never. But he’s going to his first one tonight. 6 A: in line to get in to the concert? B: About twenty minutes. But it looks like we’re finally moving now.

you / watch Max / see what / you / do

Vickie / work

Jerry / go

how long / you / wait NOW YOU CAN Describe how you’ve been enjoying the arts A NOTEPADDING Write about your experiences with the arts recently. Explain why you’ve been doing some things and not doing others. Use the present perfect continuous. Music

I’ve been listening to a lot of

jazz these days. It helps me unwind.

Art I haven’t been going to any art exhibits lately. But to tell the

truth, it’s not really my thing.

D NOTICE THE GRAMMAR FSON C GRAMMAR THE PRESENT PERFECT CONTINUOUS Use the present perfect continuous to express a continuing action that began in

the past and continues in the present. Depending on the context, the action may continue in the future. Use have / has + been and a present participle. Statements She’s been practicing ballet for years.

I’ve been listening to classical music since I was a kid. Questions Have you been playing the piano for a long time? How long has your son been painting portraits?

These words and phrases are often used with the present perfect continuous

(and the present perfect) when describing continuing actions:

for [two months] lately these days

for a while recently this [year] since [2013] all day How long … ? Note: The present perfect continuous, rather than the present perfect, is generally used to describe a recent continuous action, especially when there is

visible evidence that the action has just ended. What’s Nora’s violin doing on the table? Has she been practicing?

Remember: The present perfect can also be used to describe a continuing action

that began in the past. There is no

significant difference in meaning. She’s practiced ballet for years.

I’ve listened to classical music

since I was a kid. Have you played the piano for a

long time? How long has your son painted

portraits? However, use the present perfect, not the present perfect continuous,

in sentences with already, yet, before, and ever, because they describe finished actions. She’s already practiced ballet

this week. Have you ever studied piano?

Amy Chen, 18 San Francisco, USA

Fabiano Valle, 22 São Paulo, Brazil

Over the past few years, I’ve been going to see a lot of live theater. I’ve seen some classic but still-popular shows like Les Misérables and The Phantom of the Opera. Recently, I booked a trip to New York, and

I’ve been checking online to see what’s playing.

I couldn’t go to the Big Apple without seeing a

few good shows, right?

I try to get to MASP—that’s

the São Paulo Museum of Art—

whenever I can. Because it’s not far from work, I’ve been

dropping by about every month or so to see what’s new and visit

its excellent library. Lately,

I’ve been exploring

the Antiques Market outside as well. They always have a lot of

interesting stuff to

look at. Music plays a pretty big part in my life. Lately

I’ve been using music to wake me up in the morning, get me moving at the gym, and help me unwind after work. Speaking of work,

I’ve been listening to music more during the day and I’ve noticed that it actually makes me more productive.
Express a negative opinion politely

LESSON A 1:17 VOCABULARY NEGATIVE DESCRIPTIONS OF MUSIC Read and listen. Then listen again and repeat.

D GRAMMAR CLEFT SENTENCES WITH WHAT One way to emphasize the action in a sentence is to use a noun clause with What as the subject of the

sentence + the verb be. Make sure the form of the verb be agrees with its complement. Cleft sentences

(I really don’t like traditional music.) → What I really don’t like is traditional music. (He doesn’t understand jazz.) → What he doesn’t understand is jazz. (They really loved the lyrics.) → What they really loved were the lyrics. (The melody made everyone cry.) → What made everyone cry was the melody. E NOTICE THE GRAMMAR Find an example of a cleft sentence with What in Spotlight on page 15.

No offense, but I find her songs way too sentimental.

The melody is so sentimental.

(overly emotional or romantic) Her lyrics are way too serious.

(not fun or happy) Their music is so commercial.

(of little artistic value; focused on popular success) His sound is really dated.

(not up-to-date; not modern) Their songs are kind of repetitive.
(always repeat the same beat, lyrics, or melodies)

Also: annoying boring depressing

loud

offensive

silly weird
LISTEN TO ACTIVATE VOCABULARY Listen to each conversation. Then complete the description. 1 He finds Jackie Evancho’s music way too (repetitive / commercial / sentimental / serious). 2 She finds Maná very (repetitive / commercial / dated / serious). 3 He finds Caetano Veloso a little too (repetitive / sentimental / dated / serious). 4 She thinks reggae music is really (repetitive / sentimental / dated / commercial). 5 He thinks Anthony Hopkins’s music is too (repetitive / sentimental / dated / serious). C APPLY THE VOCABULARY With a partner, describe singers and bands you don’t like, using the Vocabulary.

2

GOAL Express a negative opinion politely

LESSON A 1:17 VOCABULARY NEGATIVE DESCRIPTIONS OF MUSIC Read and listen. Then listen again and repeat.

D GRAMMAR CLEFT SENTENCES WITH WHAT One way to emphasize the action in a sentence is to use a noun clause with What as the subject of the

sentence + the verb be. Make sure the form of the verb be agrees with its complement. Cleft sentences

(I really don’t like traditional music.) → What I really don’t like is traditional music. (He doesn’t understand jazz.) → What he doesn’t understand is jazz. (They really loved the lyrics.) → What they really loved were the lyrics. (The melody made everyone cry.) → What made everyone cry was the
